Name: Hongze Xu

I have read and agree to the collaboration policy. Hongze Xu.

(a)

Algorithm:
    
    man-gs = GS(input)
    woman-gs = GS-woman(input)
    if (man-gs is the same set with woman-gs)
        return unique
    else 
        return multiple
    
Where the GS orignial algorithm, and the GS-woman is the modified version of GS algorithm that women propose men from women's list.

The time complexity is $O(n^2)$ by calling GS and the space complexity is $O(n^2)$ to hold the table.

This algorithm will terminate since it only contains GS algorithm and no extra loop. GS will terminate, and so does this.

Proof: 

If *man-gs* and *woman-gs* are different, it's obviously there are multiple stable matchings for this instance. Since there already **two** of valid stable matchings which are guarantee by GS algorithm.

In the case of *man-gs* and *woman-gs* are the same set, we could first assume the existence of other stable matching sets. *man-gs* and *woman-gs* denote as $S$.

From GS algorithm, we can assert that every man-woman pair $(m, w) \in S$, statisfies that $m$ is the most preferred man for $w$ to form a stable pair, and $w$ is the most preferred woman for $m$ to form a stable pair.

According to our assumption, there are other stable matching sets. Let's pick one of them, denoted as $S'$. And, let the pair $(m, w)$ be the one pair in $S$.  

In $S'$, $m$ and $w$ form different stable pairs $(m, w')$ and $(m', w)$. We can deduce that $m$ prefer $w'$ more than $w$ and $w$ prefer $m'$ more than $m$ to form stable pairs $(m, w')$ and $(m', w)$.

Though, it's contradict with the GS algorithm's property. We can conclude that there is no stable matching sets that $m$ and $w$ are not paired. So, the pair $(m, w)$ must be in other stable matching sets.

Since every pair in $S$ statisfy this condition, all the pair in $S$ must exist in other stable matching sets. 

This means other "sets" are identical to $S$. Therefore, the set $S$ is unique.

(b)

For the first man, there are n chooses to pair, for the second mane, there are n - 1 chooses to pair, and finnally, we can see that there are factorial number of possible matching: $n!$. And then we try to solve 
$\lim\limits_{n\to\infty}\frac{n!}{n^c} = \infty$ where $c > 0$.



