Name: Hongze Xu

I have read and agree to the collaboration policy. Hongze Xu.

## Algorithm

```
median(a, b) {
    if (a[a.length - 1] < b[0])
        return (a[a.length - 1] + b[0]) / 2.0;
    if (b[b.length - 1] < a[0])
        return (b[b.length - 1] + a[0]) / 2.0;
    if(a.length + b.length == 4) 
        return (larger number in a[0], b[0] + larger number in a[1], b[1])) / 2.0;
    amed <- median of a;
    bmed <- median of b;
    if (amed > bmed) {
        return median(left half of a including the midian of a), 
            right half of b including the median of b);
    } else if (amed < bmed) {
        return median(right half of a including the median of a, 
            left half of b including the median of b);
    } else {
        return amed;
    }
}
```

## Proof for Correctness

**Base case:**

The base case is the two list's size are both 2. We can directly comapre and get the median. Or, if the two list size is 1 or 0. It can directly compute the median. 

**Inductive Hypothesis:**

The algorithm work for all the list with size < n.

**Inductive Step:**

For the two list L0, L1 of size n, the algorithm divide the lists into two smaller parts. 

For the median *m* of a list, the number of elements smaller than *m* must equal to the number of elements larger than *m* in the list. Therefore, for two list with total size `2n`, the median must be greater than `n` elements and smaller than `n` elements. 

In a list, if we remove the smallest and the largest elements. The original median is still worked, since there is still equal number of elements greater and smaller than the median. Therefore, removing the equal number of elements larger and smaller than median doesn't break median.

The algorithm takes the medians of two lists. Let `amed` be the median of first list and `bmed` be the median of second list. In the first list, `amed` must greater and smaller than about `n/2` elements. So does the `bmed`.

If `amed equals bmed`, then there are `n` elements greater and smaller than `amed and bmed`. Therefore, in this case, `amed or bmed` is the median. The algorithm directly return it.

If `amed > bmed`, since the length of two list is equaled. We can see that the number of elements right to `amed` in `a` equals to the number of elements left to `bmed` in `b`. So we can reduce the problem into finding the median of two shorter list without the right elements of `amed` and the left elements of `bmed`. The median unchanged after array is shorten into L0, L1. And, the problem is solvable for L0 and L1 by our hypothesis in this case.

If `amed < bmed`, the case is similar to `amed > bmed`. We can reduce the problem size by cutting same number of elements that are greater and smaller. The problem is also solvable for L0 and L1 by our hypothesis in this case.

**Conclusion:**

Therefore, we prove the algorithm will solve the problem for any n >= 0.

## Time complexity

It's an two pointers binary search. By choosing two median, we perform 1 comparision between two median each time. So, we have `T(n) = T(n/2) + O(1)`. According to Master Theorem, $T(n) = \theta(log(n))$

## Space complexity

The space complexity of this algorithm is O(log(n)) if we count the call stacks we using, or it's O(1) after the tail recursive optimization.