Name: Hongze Xu

I have read and agree to the collaboration policy. Hongze Xu.

# A

## Algorithm

```
search (arr, elem) {
    len <- length of arr.
    i <- len / 2.
    mid <- arr[i].
    if (mid's is inversed with arr[i - 1] or arr[i + 1]) {
        i <- actual mid position of elem not inversed.
        mid <- arr[i].
    }
    if (mid equals elem) 
        return i.
    if (mid > elem) 
        return search (left half of arr, elem).
    if (mid < elem)
        return search (right half of arr, elem).
}
```

Inverse detection is just determine if the prev > current or next < current.

## Proof for Correctness

This algorithm basically is a binary search. Though, due to the array is partially sorted. It takes extra inversed detection. The partially sorted array gives use that for any 3 elements [a, b, c]. There is only one inversion for b. It's either [a, c, b] or [b, a, c]. So, we can detect the inversion of b by constant time. 

Since we can detect the inversion each time, the problem reduces to the simple binary search in a sorted array.

## Time complexity

The detect inversed just check two other elements. It's constant time. So, the recursive formular is `T(n) = T(n/2) + O(1)`. And, `T(n) = O(log(n))`.

## Space complexity

The space complexity is `O(log(n))` if we count the call stack, or `O(1)` with tail recursive optimization.

# B

## Algorithm

```
2ndLargest (arr) {
    top2elem <- top2(arr).
    return top2elem[1].
}

top2 (arr) {
    if (arr's size is 2) {
        Sort the arr in ascending order.
        return arr.
    }
    left <- top2(left half of arr).
    right <- top2(right half of arr).

    if (left[0] > right[1]) {
        return left.
    } else if (right[0] > left[1]) {
        return right.
    }
    out <- new array.

    if (right[1] > left[1]) {
        out[0] = left[1].
        out[1] = right[1].
    } else {
        out[0] = right[1].
        out[1] = left[1].
    }
    
    return out.
}
```

## Proof for Correctness

**Base case:**

For the input with size 2, the algorithm can directly compute the 2nd maximum one and return the sorted list with size of 2.

**Inductive Hypothesis:**

For the input size < n, the algorithm can get the 2nd largest element in list.

**Inductive Step:**

For the input size = n, the algorithm will divide the array into 2 parts with size n / 2.

According to our hypothesis, we could solve these two parts, `left` and `right`. Since our algorithm actally returns the sorted array with size of 2. We can compute the maximum and 2nd maximum in `left` and `right` by constant time comparison. And, that bring the output of our algorithm with 2nd maximum element in the whole array.

**Conclusion:**

Therefore, our algorithm be able to compute the input size of n >= 2.

## Time complexity

The base case:

The array with size of 2, it takes costant time to solve, comparing two elements.

The merge case:

Taking the two arrays that size is 2. Finding the max and 2nd max element in 4 elements takes constant time.

We divide the array into 2 part with half of size. Therefore, we have `T(n) = 2T(n/2) + O(1)`.

According to Master Theorem, `T(n) = O(n)`. 

## Space complexity

The space complexity is `O(1)` since we always have an array size with 2.