Name: Hongze Xu

I have read and agree to the collaboration policy. Hongze Xu.

## Algorithm

```
minTime(jobs: a list of jobs P1, P2 ... Pn) {
    Sort the jobs by its y (the time required on laptop) in descending order.
    return jobs.
}

```

## Proof for Correctness

Let **L** be the list produce by our algorithm.

Suppose there is a rearrangement, swapping two jobs a, b from **L**, making the total time even shorter. The job **a** takes $(X_a, Y_a)$ time and the job **b** takes $(X_b, Y_b)$ time. And, in **L**, **a** is on left side of **b**. The rearrangement forms list **L'**. The time distance between **a** and **b** is $t_d$.

Suppose in **L**, **b** finishes at time $t_1$, and **a** starts at time $t_0$. We can see that the whole time period affact by **a** and **b** is: $t_1 + \epsilon$ where $Y_b \le \epsilon \le Y_a - X_a$. The lower bound is $Y_b$ in the case that all the jobs before $b$ finished when $b$ processes on lab machine. The upper bound is $Y_a - X_a$, when the $b$ is next to the $a$. 

After swapping, the $t_1$ is the time that $a$ finish, swapping doesn't affect the job finished time on lab machine. Therefore, the time affect by $a$ and $b$ is $t_1 + Y_a$ where $\epsilon' = Y_a$, since the $Y_a$ is the largest between $Y_a \space to \space Y_b$.

We can see that $t_1 + \epsilon \le t_1 + \epsilon'$. Therefore the swapping cannot make the time shorter. It's contradict with our assumption.

Therefore, the cannot exist a rearrangement by swapping two elements in list producing a shorter total time, and the output of our algorithm is optimal.

## Time complexity

The time complexity is depended on the sorting algorithm we using. 
Let's use the merge sort, which takes `O(nlog(n))`.

## Space complexity

The space complexity is depended on the sorting algorithm we using.
Let's use the merge sort, which takes `O(n)`.

