## Algorithm

```
placeRecycle(cities, K) {
    n = number of city
    history = new array with dimenstion of [n][K]
    mids = new array with dimension of [n][n]
    for (i = 1 to n) {
        for (j = i + 1 to n) {
            mid = median city between i and j;
            for (e = i to j) {
                mids[i][j] += distance between e and mid city;
            }
        }
    }
    for (i = 0 to n) {
        history[i][1] = mids[1][i];
    }
    for (k = 2 to K) { 
        for (i = k to n) { // i is outer bound
            history[i][k] = positive infinity
            for (j = k - 1 to i - 1) { // j is break point
                next = history[j][k - 1] + mids[j + 1][i]
                if (history[i][k] > next)
                    history[i][k] = next
            }
        }
    }
    return history[n][K]
}
```

The algorithm compute the 

## Time Complexity

The algorithm will always performs two 3-level nested loops. The first nested loop runs 

$$\sum_{i=1}^{n} \sum_{j = i + 1}^n \sum_{e=i}^j e $$.

The second nested loop runs

$$ \sum_{k=2}^K \sum_{i=k}^n \sum_{j = k -1}^{i - 1} j $$

Totally, it 

$$ placeRecycle(cities, K) \in O(n^3+n^2K) $$

## Space Complexity

The algorithm use two 2-d array to store midpoints and optmized result. It takes $O(n^2+nk)$

## Proof Correctness

**Base Case:**

The algorithm will simply calculate the min cost by picking median city for only placing one recycle plant in N cities. 

Suppose placing the recycle plant in median city is not the optimized way.
There is two cases, placing the plant left to the median, or placing the plant right to the median. Suppose placing recycle at median produce such cost:

$$cost_m = \sum_{i=0}^{median - 1}d_i + \sum_{i=median + 1}^{n}d_i$$

where $d_i$ is the distance between median and $i$ city.

If we place the plant right to the median, we can see the cost shift:

$$\sum_{i=0}^{median - 1}(d_i + d_{median+1}) + d_{median+1} + \sum_{i=median + 2}^{n}(d_i - d_{median+1})$$

which is equal to:

$$cost_{m+1} = cost_m + \sum_{i=0}^{median} d_{median+1}-\sum^n_{i=median+2} d_{median+1}$$

We can see that:

$$\sum_{i=0}^{median} d_{median+1}-\sum^n_{i=median+2} d_{median+1} \gt 0$$

according to the property of median.

Therefore, placing the recycle plant right to the median can only make the cost bigger.

We can produce similar conclution for placing the plant left to the median.

Therefore, there placing the recycle plant at median is the optimized solution for only one recycle plant.

**Inductive Hypothesis:**

The algorithm works correctly for all number of recycle plant less than K. 

**Inductive Step:**

Suppose we need to place K recycle plants in n cities. Since placing a plant can affact the cities beside of it, the algorithm will search for all the possibility place to place it. It will breaks the problem into placing a recycle plant in a range of cities and placing remaining (K - 1) recycle plants in remaining range of cities. According to our hypothesis, the algorithm could work correctly for (K - 1). Therefore, it can calculate the K case by combining the result from placing (K - 1) recycles and one recycle. 

**Conclusion:**

We can conclude that the algorithm could solve for all the input cities with all $0 \ge K \ge n$