# A

Suppose in the case of the edge costs of a connected graph G are all distinct, there are two MST, `A` and `B`.

The edge `a` is a edge only in `A` but not in `B`. If we add `a` to `B`, it form a cycle. According to the cycle property, the edge `max`, which has the max weight in the cycle, cannot be in any MST. Since, `a` is in MST. Therefore, `a` cannot be `max`. Since, the `B` doesn't contains `a`, it must contains the `max`. It's contradiction.

# B

Induction Proof for the cost of the minimum spanning tree of G is `n − 1 + c − 1`.

Base case:

If there is 0 node, it gives our 0. If there is 1 node, it gives our 0. If there are 2 nodes connected by 1, it gives our 1. If there are 2 nodes connected by 2, it gives our 2. We can exam that they are all true.

Inductive Hypothesis:

For the case that number of nodes is less than N, it's correct. 

Inductive Step:

For the graph with size N, we have to cases: 1: new node belong to a group with edge cost 1. 2: new node belong to a single group with edge cost 2.

The cost of MST for N - 1 is `W(N - 1) = (N - 1) - 1 + c - 1`, where c is the number of connected groups in graph N - 1.

In the case 1, we can see that the new MST weight is `W(N - 1) + 1 = (N - 1) - 1 + c - 1 + 1 = N - 1 + c - 1`. This is true according to our hypothesis. This result is the same with our formula that `W(N) = N - 1 + c - 1` for c connected groups.

In the case 2, we can see that the new MST weight is `W(N - 1) + 2 = (N - 1) - 1 + c - 1 + 2 = N - 1 + (c + 1) - 1`. This is true according to our hypothesis. This result is the same with our formula `W(N) = N - 1 + (c + 1) - 1` for c + 1 connected groups.

Conclusion:

`n − 1 + c − 1` is true for any size of graph.

### Algorithm to Find MST

```
MST(G: Input graph) {
    E <- all the edges in G;
    V <- number of vertex in G;
    DB <- empty list;
    MSTList <- empty list;
    foreach (edge e in E) {
        if (e's weight is 1) {
            if (adding e to MSTList won't form a cycle) {
                add e MSTList;
            }
        } else {
            add e to DB;
        }
    }
    if (MSList's size is not equal to V) {
        foreach (edge e in DB) {
            if (adding e to MSTList won't form a cycle) {
                add e MSTList;
            }
        }
    }
    return MSTList;
}
```

### Proof for Correctness

This algorithm is just a special version for Kruskal algorithm. The idea is choosing the least weight edge first to form the Tree without forming a cycle. Since, the graph has only 1 and 2 weight edges, we can first choose the edge with weight 1. Then, we consider if we need to have some cost 2 edge to form the MST. The problem reduces to the Kruskal algorithm. Therefore, it correct.

### Time Complexity

There are two loops in the algorithm. The first one runs number of edges `n` times. The computation inside is just constant time. The second one runs also `n` times in worest case. (All edges cost 2) Therefore, the time complexity of the algoithm is O(n).

### Space Complexity

The algorithm require a list to hold the edges cost 2, and a list to hold MST edges. In worest case, all the edges cost 2. Then, `DB` takes `n` space. The `MSTList` must takes `m - 1` space, where `m` is number of vertex in graph. So, the space complexity is O(m + n). 





