## Algorithm

```
updateMST(T: array of edges form old MST, e: the new edge) {
    max <- T[0];
    foreach (edge ed in T) {
        if (max's weight < ed's weight) 
            max <- ed;
    }
    if (e's weight < max's weight) {
        remove max in T;
        add e to T;
    }
    return T;
}
```

## Proof for Correctness

The algorithm first finds the maximum edge `max` from old MST. There is two cases. 

The first case is that, the new edge's `e` weight is greater than the weight of `max`. In this case, the algorithm will not change the MST. 

Suppose after adding the e, it form a new MST `T'` which contains the edge `e`. That means the total weight of `T'` is less that the total weight of `T`. However, that's impossible. Since the weight of `e` is greater than all the edge in `T`. If we add `e` into it, and an edge `e'` in `T` is removed. We can assert that `weight(e) > weight(e')` which is `weight(e) - weight(e') > 0`, and the total weight `totalWeight(T') = totalWeight(T) + (weight(e) - weight(e'))`. Therefore, the total weight of `T'` must be greater than `T`, but not less. Therefore, the `T` is still the MST of the graph.

If the new edge `e` weight is less than weight of `max`, the algorithm will chooose to remove the `max` from MST and add `e` to MST array as the new MST named `T`.

Suppose the MST is another tree `T'`, which doesn't contains `e`. The `T'` has to be the old MST. We deduce that `weight(T') < weight(T)`. Though, this is impossible. Since, `weight(e) < weight(max)` and `weight(T) = weight(T') - weight(max) + weight(e)` which `-weight(max) + weight(e) < 0`.

## Time Complexity

The algorithm has a loop iterating the all the edges in old MST to find the maximum edge. Since the MST will have `N - 1` edges, where `N` is the number of vertex, the loop will run `N - 1` times. Then the algorithm takes a constant time to decide if we replace the new edge. Therefore, the time complexity is `O(n)`.

## Space Complexity

The algorithm just takes a constant space to hold the max. Therefore, the space complexity is `O(n)`.



