## Algorithm

```
minChange(coins: the denominations array, 
    total: the amount cents need to change) {

    history <- new empty array with size total + 1;
    history[0] <- 0;
    for (i = 1 to total)
        history[i] <- infinity;

    for (i = 1 to total) 
        foreach (coin c in coins) {
            subtotal <- i - c;
            if (subtotal is equal to 0) {
                history[i] <- 1;
            } else if (subtotal > 0 && history[subtotal] is not infinity) {
                history[i] <- min(history[subtotal] + 1, history[i]);
            }
        }
    
    return history[total];
}
```

### Proof for Correctness

Base Case:

The algorithm will return 0 for computing the total with 0, since 0 cents don't need to change.

Inductive Hypothesis:

The algorithm will get correct output for the all the `total` less than T.

Inductive Step:

For the input with `total` `T`, the algorithm will iterate all the coins, and check if we using that coin `c`, what sub-problem (sub-total) it will be reduced to. The problem is solvable if and only if the sub-problem is solvable. According to our algorithm, we can immidiatly find the sub-total in memory, and, according the inductive hypothesis, it's correct. If the sub-problem with total `T - c` exist, the algorithm computes or updates the result for `total` `T`, by comparing which is less, using that the result of sub-problem. 
The algorithm will iterate for all the possible coins. Therefore, it can find the absolute minimum number of coin needed for `total` is `T`.

Conclusion:

Therefore, the algorithm can solve for any input total greater or equal 0.

## Time Complexity

The algorithm takes the two loops, which one loop is nested into another. We have input total `n` and the length of coins `m`. The outer one loops for `n` times and the inner one loops for `m` times. In the inner loop, the operation to calculate the changes takes constant time. Therefore, the time complexity of this algorithm is `O(mn)`.

## Space Complexity

The algorithm requires an extra array to store all the minimum change before total `n`. Therefore, the space complexity is `O(n)`.