## Subproblem

To get the maximum total works for N cycles, for P, we can break it into the subproblem at N - 1 cycle for P, and the subproblem at N - 1 cycle for Q.
For Q, we can break it into the subproblem at N - 1 cycle for Q, and the subproblem N - 100 for P.

## Recursive Formular

let maxWorkP(T) be the maximum work could do for choosing P at T cycle.
let maxWorkQ(T) be the maximum work could do for choosing Q at T cycle.
let max(a, b) be the function return the greater value between a and b.
let P(T) be the certain amount of work can P do at T cycle.
let Q(T) be the certain amount of work can Q do at T cycle.

Then the recursive formular is

maxWorkP(T) = max(maxWorkP(T - 1) + P(T), maxWorkQ(T - 100) + P(T))
maxWorkQ(T) = max(maxWorkQ(T - 1) + Q(T), maxWorkP(T - 100) + Q(T))

## Algorithm

```
schedule(p: array contains task P start at index 0, 
    q: array contains task Q start at index 0) { 

    N <- the total cycles (length of p and q);
    hisp <- new array with size N + 1;
    hisq <- new array with size N + 1;
    hisp[0] <- 0;
    hisq[0] <- 0;
    for (i = 1 to N) {
        chooseP <- hisp[i - 1] + p[i - 1];
        if (i > 100) {
            chooseP <- max between (chooseP, hisq[i - 100] + p[i - 1]);
        }
        hisp[i] <- chooseP;

        chooseQ <- hisq[i - 1] + q[i - 1];
        if (i > 100) {
            chooseQ <- max between (chooseQ, hisp[i - 100] + q[i - 1]);
        }
        hisq[i] <- chooseQ;
    }
    return max between (hisp[N], hisq[N]);
}
```

Notice since that the array p, q are started at index 0, the iteration start at 1, which should choose the first (at index 0) element on q and q. So, the index i shift 1 for p and q. 

## Proof for Correctness

Base Case:

If there is no cycle (0 cycle), the algorithm will output 0 as no task can be completed.

Inductive Hypothesis:

The algorithm work correct for all the input with size less than N.

Inductive Step:

For the case N, the algorithm will look for two cases, choosing P or choosing Q to run at N cycle. It will compute for both case. 

If we choosing P at N. The sum of tasks can either be produced by the sum from that we choose P at cycle N - 1, or the sum from that we choose Q at cycle N - 100. Since we are memorizing all the solutions we did before N, and according to our hypothesis, the solutions before N is all correct, we can get those two solutions immidiatly. The algorithm will choose the one with greater sum and add the P[N] to get new sum. Then, we store it as the result of choosing P at N cycle.

The algorithm does the same thing for the case we choosing Q at N. By looking for the greater possible histories from choosing Q at N -1 or chossing P at N - 100, we get the maximum solution for choosing Q at N and store it.

Conclusion:

Therefore, the algorithm could solve all the input with size >= 0.

## Time Complexity

The core of the algorithm is a loop which iterates for N times. In the loop it will perform a constant time operation on computing the new maximum sum. Therefore, the time complexity is `O(n)`.

## Space Complexity

The algorithm requires two arrays to store the histories of choosing P or Q at any cycle less or equal to N. The total memory is 2N. Therefore, the space complexity is `O(n)`.

